Cloud9, or any IDE really, has three primary objectives.
These objectives are to allow developers to write,
run,
and debug code in the most efficient way possible. When writing code
with Cloud9, you have a full suite of features that make the cloud
development experience as seamless as possible while providing you
features that maximize your productivity.
Features like code hinting and code completion make it feel just as
if you were coding directly on your own machine.
Pre‑packaged execution abilities within Cloud9 allow you to quickly
run your code for common programming languages,
such as Node.js, Python, and C#. Run configurations often work
out of the box, but remain flexible to allow developers to
customize them to meet their needs.
An integrated debugger allows a developer to pause code execution
in their browser and step through their code line by line by
analyzing local variables and call stacks.
This enables faster debugging of issues,
resulting in more resilient code and faster velocity for creating new features.
So you may be wondering, how does Cloud9 work exactly?
Well, at the highest level,
use a computer, literally any computer, and you access AWS via a
URL in the browser. From there, Cloud9 runs on a virtual machine,
typically an EC2 instance, and integrates with CodeCommit for
saving your code in source control.
The seamless integration from Cloud9 to other AWS services is one of
the main selling points for leveraging it as an IDE.
I want to know, this is just an example,
and you can actually change your Cloud9 architecture
to meet your needs, for example,
you can actually run Cloud9 with your own server not hosted on AWS,
and you can integrate it with any source control platform,
such as GIt. Before we dive into Cloud9, there are a few
prerequisite requirements we need to do beforehand.
Foremost,
we need an AWS user that we can access the AWS console
with. Preferably, this is not the root user of our account
for various security reasons.
Then, we need to provision an EC2 instance to run Cloud9 or establish
an SSH connection to our own server to run Cloud9.
If this sounds intimidating, don't worry,
because Cloud9 can automatically provision EC2 instances
for us, unless we prompt otherwise.
Lastly, we need a Cloud9 IAM role.
This will allow Cloud9 to have sufficient access to other resources. If
you're unfamiliar with identity and access management, or IAM,
don't worry,
we will cover it at a high level as it pertains to Cloud9 in
this course. The Cloud9 environment we create will have a few
customization options for us,
including a name and description, auto‑hibernation mode,
which I highly recommend, since it provides significant cost savings.
This essentially means that when you're not using Cloud9,
it will terminate the EC2 instance it runs on, so you're only paying for the
service and compute power while you're actively using it.
And there's also some additional configurations we can leverage, which we will get to later in this course.